How do we actually find material?
One of the best places to look for material is in Edelweiss.
And I know you're thinking - Wait, that's a place where I go to get review copies?
Yes, it is.
It is great for that purpose.
It's also great for taking a look at very, very big pot of books,
such as everything being published, and narrowing it down in your specific area.
I highly recommend using this method.
As you can see, they allow you to have filters.
So yes, you can go in and look through everything. I think you'll be surprised at how much everything actually is. There is a lot.
But you can begin to narrow it down by vendor by imprint, publication date subject, Dewey Lexile level, age, format,
whether it has a review, copy,
lots of ways to narrow it down.
One of the ways that I often employ
is looking at updates.
So, you can do it by month, you can do it every four months.
You can do it by year.
If you have a very small area like algebra books,
you might not want to do that monthly.
There may not be algebra books out monthly.
It may be okay to do that every six months or every year.
If you're doing something like fiction,
and you go a full year,
you will have an unwieldy list of materials.
So, I would suggest taking it by genre,
or taking it by pub date,
and just going month to month,
until you figure out if that amount of material is useful.
Or you can just look for your own curiosity.
Starting today, looking at one month in these areas that are personally interesting to me,
what is going to be coming out
and you see the result is 2855 items.
So unwieldy if you have multiple things to look at.
Or if it's compared to something like fiction,
this number might look pretty good.
So, if you're looking for something a little smaller,
you see you can narrow it down as small as you like.
So, starting today, looking out for months,
we're going to do not all eviction,
but just a little bit,
just mystery and crime, which could include mystery detective, or thrillers, psychological or legal crime or nor.
We're going to check all the formats because I still to this day,
don't know the difference between hardback and hardcover.
It's the same thing. But just in case, there's a difference.
We're going to do both.
And we're going to focus on adult.
And you see that came up with 1072 items for four months.
Very, very doable.
And not to leave out the other place that you get advanced reader copies.
Net Galley is also good, but not quite as robust a search function as Edelweiss.
But this is telling you things that are upcoming.
They have a very good focus,
especially on individual and self published items.
So, if you're looking for that, Net Galley is a good place to start.
You have categories for LGBTQ IA and also multicultural.
And it's a great place to not only get advanced reader copies,
you absolutely do not have to download every arc that you see.
But it's going to help you with discoverability.
These are three things I discovered just doing a search looking for new materials.
It was very interesting to see how many of these were reviewed or even mentioned in other vendor catalogs or review journals.
The answer is - not too many!